---
layout: post
title: Moving Personal Containers to the next stage
author: Richard Mortier
excerpt: Announcing the http://perscon.net website refresh!
---
{% include JB/setup %}

After some time analysing responses to the first prototypes of the
_Personal Container_, we're now moving on to the next stage!  One of
the pieces of feedback we received quite strongly was that it's not
always appropriate to attempt to pull all your personal data into a
single centralised location.  This seems to be true whether or not you
make that location locally hosted, e.g., on your phone or set-top box;
or you make that location cloud hosted, e.g., in an Amazon virtual
machine or in a specifically designed Personal Container service.  A
number of people we talked with expressed high levels of concern about
the security of such a repository, its vulnerability to attack and the
fear of the "all your eggs in one basket" approach. 

We had a think about this and, in response, came up with the notion of
_[Dataware][]_.  This lets you construct a federated system in which
you control access to your personal data, which remains stored where
it is most appropriate.  For example, your financial data might remain
with your bank, and your health data with your GP; but you would have
the ability to permit access to these data sources by third parties,
for specific, restricted purposes.  Equally, where appropriate, you
might construct aggregate data sources that live on hosts such as your
set-top box or phone.

Some of the technical problems encountered in trying to build this
system are described in overview on [this website][overview].  Over
the coming weeks we will be adding a series of posts to this blog
describing some of them in detail, along with some of the components
we've been building, with the hope that our experiences and our code
will be of wider interest and use.  We look forward to any comments or
other inputs! 

[dataware]: /overview/dataware.html
[overview]: /overview/
