---
layout: post
title: "My thoughts on the Seedsummit Term Sheet"
author: Amir Chaudhry
date: 2011-07-11 14:02:00
tags: [essay, legal, startups]
description:
---
{% include JB/setup %}

![Affärsbilder by Dan Eriksson on Flickr](/images/seedsummit-termsheet.jpg)

A few days ago, [Seedsummit](http://seedsummit.org) released a Term
Sheet intended to be (or become) standard across Europe for early stage
investment.

It’s been several days since the announcement and so far I haven’t seen
much in-depth commentary on it (other than acknowledging its existence
and how difficult it must have been to achieve consensus). That might be
because the announcement seemed to come as a surprise, so perhaps folks
haven’t had a chance to digest it yet. Or maybe nobody cares?

[One post from the Guardian](http://www.guardian.co.uk/technology/pda/2011/jul/06/startups-terms-seed) offered some criticism, but beyond that it’s all been a bit quiet. Since no-one else has posted any thoughts, I thought I’d go through the document and offer my opinions. I’ve put the notes in a [more comprehensive post](http://amirchaudhry.com/journal/review-of-the-seedsummit-term-sheet) and summarised the main points here (mostly because going through a legal document is a little bit dreary).


### Main comments on Seedsummit term sheet

There are a few of things that founders should be careful of. First is
the liquidation preference, where founders should be getting the
non-participating option (Option 1). Second is vesting, since founders
probably want to adjust the values described. Third is how the option
pool is set up (before/after the funding). Finally, the anti-dilution
provisions don’t seem to provide any useful information so founders
should check this carefully if they’re presented with it. For more
detail on any of these points, see the relevant section in the [detailed
review](http://amirchaudhry.com/review-of-the-seedsummit-term-sheet).

The overall impression I got was that these are documents for **dealing
with VCs** *(edit: It seems an additional note was added to the download
page to this effect)*. Unsurprising since it was put together by 21 VC
firms from across Europe. Surprising because I’m guessing no Angel
investors were involved, despite the term sheet being advertised for
‘early stage’ financing. Since Seedsummit is trying to build a network
of european investors (and credit to them for that), I did find it a
little odd that there didn’t seem to be any Angels listed as helping to
create this document. Perhaps it’s because the Angels aren’t investing
on a pan-european basis? I’d love to see a Series A term sheet for
comparison and my gut feel is that the Seedsummit document has a lot
more in common with Series A than with Angel docs. This does beg the
question, what does ‘seed’ actually mean?


#### What does *seed* mean?

In 2009, I set up and ran the first iteration of
[Springboard](http://www.springboard.com) (a seed accelerator). We were
helping early-stage teams to get a product out the door and to start
getting feedback from users ([customer development](http://www.slideshare.net/venturehacks/customer-development-methodology-presentation)).
When teams came out of the programme, I considered them ‘seed-stage’,
i.e likely to be ready for seed investment, wherever that may come from.
Ideally, the team would have a version of the product that was being
used by early adopters. The team would be adapting that product based on
feedback, although they would likely have little/no revenue. That
basically sums up what I picture in my head when I think of
‘seed-stage’.

Over the last week I’ve met several VCs from different firms and asked
them directly what *seed* means to them. For each of them, seed-stage
investing involves companies that have a product, customers and
revenues. This was pretty much the case for *all* the VCs I spoke to. I
wish I’d probed for more detail as to what kind of revenue/customer
numbers they expect but never mind.

In any case, despite using the same language, there’s obviously a gap
between the above viewpoints. I’m not suggesting either of them is right
or wrong but I think it’s important to point out such differences,
especially in the light of the new ‘standard’ term sheet.


### What does this term sheet mean for founders?

In brief, founders should do their homework. In going through this
document, I spent quite a while researching and there’s actually a lot
of information out there about what the terms mean and the impact they
might have. As we now have a European VC term sheet in the open it’ll
make comparisons with US VCs a lot easier. Any major disparities will
quickly be picked on by the popular startups who might go elsewhere to
raise money. Indeed, the real test will be whether or not a ‘hot’ new
startup uses these terms and as they stand, I doubt that will be the
case. Founders will still need lawyers and VCs will still be willing to
negotiate terms.

We’re not quite at the point-and-click stage for early stage financing
but with more and more information being put into the open, it does
become easier for startups to make better informed decisions.

If you haven’t already, you can go check my [review of the Seedsummit terms](http://amirchaudhry.com/journal/review-of-the-seedsummit-term-sheet) now.

Did you find this useful? [Upvote and comment on HN](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=2750689)

<small><i>Photo credit: <a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/26601279@N04/2496121873/">Affärsbilder by Dan Eriksson on Flickr</a></i></small>
