---
layout: post
title: "Review of the Seedsummit Term Sheet"
author: Amir Chaudhry
date: 2011-07-11 14:00:00
tags: [essay, legal, startups]
description:
shorturl: http://bit.ly/InJrln
---
{% include JB/setup %}

**Please read the [summary post](http://amirchaudhry.com/journal/my-thoughts-on-the-seedsummit-term-sheet) (above) before reading this one.**

Summary: Last week, [Seedsummit](http://seedsummit.org) released a Term
Sheet intended to be (or become) standard across Europe for early stage
investment. To achieve this, 21 European VC firms convened and agreed on
a ‘standard’ set of terms. The aim of producing this document is to make
“… seed funding easier to access, better to understand, and fair for all
parties”. If you want to, you can [download the general term sheet](http://www.seedcamp.com/docs/seedsummit_general_termsheet_v1p.doc)
for yourself. I’ll go through this document below.

### Things to note

Before I get into the document itself, there are a few things I should
point out:

-   The most important is that **I Am Not A Lawyer**. Anyone dealing
    with *legal docs* should obviously get *legal advice*. However,
    since this term sheet is meant to be “reader-friendly” (as
    SeedSummit says), I’d hope that someone like myself should be able
    to understand and interpret it to some degree. If not, one of the
    benefits of this document diminishes since I still need a lawyer to
    translate it for me.
-   I’m only reviewing the general term sheet, not the EIS specific
    sheet.
-   I’ve read typical angel investment docs since I’ve led one angel
    investment before (for someone else). Hence my point of view is
    likely to be influenced by that.
-   I’ve never seen a term sheet from a VC so I can’t make any specific
    comparisons between the new SeedSummit sheet or a prior VC term
    sheet (though I’d like to).
-   Obviously, everything you read is here is just my opinion. Whether
    you agree or disagree, I just want to see some discussion.

* * * * *

## About Seedsummit


I realised I know very little about Seedsummit itself so I looked around
their website and also for other links via Google.

In a few words, SeedSummit is Europe’s answer to
[AngelList](http://angel.co/). More specifically, it’s SeedCamp’s answer
to AngelList (it’s run by the same people rather than independently). It
seems there are about 120-ish investors (assuming all profiles are
visible) and the investment range is from 10k to 500k EUR (which is the
kind of range I consider to be ‘seed’). Randomly clicking through the
profiles, I see that the majority of them say “I am investing: My own
money”. At first, I took that to mean there were more Angels on the
platform but looking closer I noticed that some of those profiles are of
Partners in VC funds. Although these folks have ‘skin in the game’ I
expect they only invest via their funds so it would have been more
appropriate to say “Money from a fund”. In any case, this made it more
tricky to guess at the ratio between Angels and VCs on Seedsummit, so I
gave up trying. If anyone else knows the answer, please let me know.


## Comments on the Seedsummit Term Sheet

I’ll go through this term by term and note my comments so you can follow
along with the document. I’ll skip the stuff that doesn’t warrant much
discussion (e.g Company, Founders, etc). Since this document was based
on the [Series Seed](http://www.seriesseed.com/) documents from the US,
I’ll also make a quick comparison between them.


### Structure of financing

The [pre-money](http://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/114.asp)
valuation includes the employee share option pool, which effectively
dilutes the founders a little more than they would otherwise have
expected. There’s a pretty good post by [Fred Wilson on valuations and option pools](http://www.avc.com/a_vc/2009/11/valuation-and-option-pool.html)
and I’d recommend people read that for more information.


### Type of security

This basically says that the new shares have preferential rights (i.e
they are not common stock).


### Liquidation preferences

There are two options here and both state “… one times the original
purchase price …”, in other words it’s the same amount of money the
investor put in. Had this been anything other than ‘one’ it would be
cause for concern. The main difference between the two options is
whether the investor is *non-participating* or *fully-participating*
which are quite different.

*Non-participating* means that the investor can do one of two things
when there’s a ‘liquidity event’ (e.g acquisition). They can either make
sure they get their money back (i.e one times the purchase price), with
any left over being divided amongst the other shareholders. Or they can
choose to get an amount in proportion to the shares they hold. They will
take whichever returns the most money. Obviously, both the founder and
investor want the sale to be as large as possible so both will be aiming
for the latter case. In the case where the exit isn’t quite what the
investor imagined, then they’ll try and get their money back. It seems
there is an example of this in practice when [Fred wrote about Slide](http://www.avc.com/a_vc/2010/08/heres-why-you-need-a-liquidation-preference.html).

*Fully-participating* means the investor gets to do **both** of the
above. They will get their money out first and then will *also* take a
share of any left over money (sometimes referred to as
‘double-dipping’). This is definitely the less founder-friendly option
and I expect founders would not accept it (assuming they have enough
bargaining power to push back). It does seem a little odd to me that
this is listed as an option in an early stage term sheet, especially
since terms usually get carried forward into subsequent funding rounds.
For an example of how liquidation preferences can affect the way money
gets distributed, you can read [VentureBeat on liquidation preferences](http://venturebeat.com/2010/08/16/beware-the-trappings-of-liquidation-preference/)
(scroll down to the example).


### Anti-dilution provisions

This term, which is indicated as optional, dictates what happens if a
subsequent round of funding occurs at a lower valuation than the current
one. Except it doesn’t. Those deceptive square brackets could hold a
range of scary sounding words and in some cases you might even find
equations in there. Since there’s no suggested text here, I don’t have
much to say. Feel free to google and you’ll find some variations on what
could end up in here.


### Important Decisions

A list of things you can’t do without the investor’s consent. The
options here basically whether the list is written in the terms or
referred to in an appendix. From the suggested list, there isn’t
anything I haven’t seen before.

One thing that might be *missing* is the proportion of shares that must
be maintained by these investors to maintain this right. As it stands,
the investor could hold any amount of shares and still maintain the
right (e.g they could hold less than 5% and still block a sale of the
company even if the other 95+% agreed to it).


### Pre-emption, Right of first-refusal and Co-sale

I’ve seen most of this before but there are a couple of things I don’t
understand. Firstly, for pre-emption, “The Investors my assign this
right to another member of their fund group”. I have no idea what this
means since I can’t figure what ‘fund group’ is being referred to.
Secondly, for the Right of first-refusal, I’m not sure what “…transfers
by Investors to affiliated funds” means either.


### Drag Along

The important point here is that *both* a majority of the Preference
shares *and* of the Ordinary shares is required to enact it. Had it only
been a majority of Preference shares then it would be drastically
one-sided.


### Restrictive Covenants and Founders Undertakings

Other documents come into play here, for example the employment
contracts. An interesting point is that the founders shouldn’t work on
anything else during their ‘business time’, which mean any side projects
might need permission from the investors. It’s reasonable to expect
founders to commit themselves to the business but they would need to
check the employment contract to make sure there isn’t anything
untoward. The last sentence referring to immediate dismissal for cause
seems a little harsh.


### Founder Shares

Apparently the shares held by founders would be subject to *reverse
vesting*. In effect, whatever shares you thought you ‘owned’, you don’t
really have anymore. Reverse vesting means that although you have your
shares the company will repurchase them from you (at practically no
cost) if you leave or are fired. That ‘right-to-repurchase’ diminishes
over time. This doesn’t sound like a good deal for the founders but it’s
understandable that the investor wants to keep the founders committed to
the company.

The interesting part are the suggested figures. 25% of the founder
shares vest after a year and the rest on a monthly basis over another
two years. This seems a bit excessive to me. Firstly, I don’t see any
reason why more of the shares can’t vest immediately and the rest on a
monthly basis thereafter. Secondly, I think a three year time frame is
quite long and although I’ve seen it for employee options it doesn’t
seem appropriate for founders at an early stage. (edit to add: I’ve
heard from friends in San Francisco that four year vesting with a one
year cliff is pretty standard out there)

For the kinds of startups I’ve dealt with, I’m generally of the opinion
that if a founder leaves, then the company is effectively over.
Provisions for clawing back shares, like the one one here, seem largely
pointless to me. In any case, I think founders will have to look
carefully at what the vesting looks like and see if it works for them


### Expenses

Option 1 just plain sucks. I find it slightly ridiculous that the
investor expects the company to pay for their legal fees and the amount
isn’t even capped. Option 2 is slightly better in that everyone pays
their own fees but it also includes a caveat that if the founders decide
to withdraw, then they’ll have to pay the investor’s legal fees to date.
That would seem fair enough but notice there’s no caveat for the case
where the *investor* decides to change their mind. I’d certainly push
for that to be added too.


## Brief comparison with Series Seed

The Seedsummit term sheet is itself based on the [Series Seed](http://www.seriesseed.com/) documents so I thought it would make
sense to do a quick comparison between them.

There are a handful of things I noticed which were:

-   Series seed only mentions a non-participating liquidation preference
    (Seedsummit includes an option for fully participating)
-   In the Series Seed document, the investor’s legal expenses are paid
    for by the company but they’re capped ($10,000).
-   Series Seed’s founder vesting is over 4 years (but gives no
    suggestions).
-   No anti-dilution provisions in Series Seed term sheet

If you got this far then congratulations on your patience!

You can either go [back to the summary post](http://amirchaudhry.com/journal/my-thoughts-on-the-seedsummit-term-sheet)
or [upvote and comment on HN](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=2750689)
